#Project Post-Mortem Template*Agile and similar methodologies run regular Sprint Retrospectives and tend not to have a big Project Post Mortem at the end. This template is for those teams that do need to submit a project Post Mortem report (Agile teams can use it too, although the Sprint Retrospective Template may be more relevant).***Document Created:** \<Date>**Author:** \<Author>**Distribution:** \<Distribution List><u>**Document Revision History**</u>| Revised By      | Date           | Comment  |
| ------------- |:-------------:| -----:|
| Initials or name     | Date modified      |   Reason for revision |
| Initials or name     | Date modified      |   Reason for revision |
| Initials or name     | Date modified      |   Reason for revision |
| Initials or name     | Date modified      |   Reason for revision |
		| Start Date  | End Date   | Project Manager  | Client |
| ------------- |:-------------:| :-----:| ---- |
|dd-mon-yyyy	 |dd-mon-yyyy | Initials	| Client/Stakeholder(s)|
 ##Project Background\<Briefly describe the reason for the project, calling out clearly its stated goals>##Executive SummaryOutline the project charter
List the project success criteria
Specify if the budget was on-time/on-budget and if not why not
List the key milestones##Analysis###SuccessesList and describe key achievements, explaining what went well and why. Be specific and consider listing them in order of importance. - What worked and why- Major milestones and their deliverables- Processes and areas of business improved- New processes or components created during the project that were not direct project deliverables. For example *“We now have some software that connects System A with System B to make process C simpler in the future”.*
###Problem AreasList and describe key problem areas, explaining what didn’t go well and why. Be specific and consider listing them in order of impact. If there were technical challenges, explain them as if to a lay audience.- What didn’t work and why- Major problems and their direct impact- Processes and areas of business affected##Project Risk AssessmentThe risk assessment section should link back to a Risk Register if one was created, as well as any contingency or mitigation plans if they are not contained within the Register.With specific regard to identifying improvements in future projects you might like to consider the following criteria:1.	Adherence to scope - what changes were made to the original scope after the project start date and what was their impact?2.	Adherence to process – was proper project management methodology followed and adhered to?3.	Team unity assessment – did the team work well together, was communication good/easy/regular/effective?4.	Project Planning – often directly related to adherence to process. Was the project properly planned or were there a number of things that should have been foreseen but weren’t, or weren’t properly scheduled, resourced or reported? 5.	Project Management – was their effective project management in terms of managing expectations of stakeholders and the delivery team, early assessment and mitigation of risks, support in removing blockers etc?6.	Quality assessment – is the output of the project regarded by all stakeholders as high quality. If not, what is regarded as sub-standard, by whom, and why?##Additional CommentsGive any other comments, in particular feedback from stakeholders and the delivery team that is relevant. For example, *“on the nights the team worked late to complete a deliverable it would have been nice to have the company pay for pizza and taxis home”*###Outstanding TasksIt’s an imperfect world where projects complete that still have outstanding tasks. Summarize and list all tasks related to the project that remain undone/ incomplete. Do this as if they were tasks for a later phase.
###Post Project TasksSummarize and list all tasks related to the project that should be executed now that it is complete. For example *“training to be rolled out across the enterprise on new system.”*##Lessons LearnedThis is the key section and the point of the project post mortem. Summarize and describe the key lessons from the project. 