#Request for Information (RFI)		###[YOUR COMPANY NAME]For the Provision of###[Product/Service Description]From###[RECIPIENT COMPANY NAME]Document Issued: <Date>*Note:**Responses to this Request for Information (RFI) should be sent by email to [your email address] and received no later than [final submission date]* **recommend you use the international dd-mon-yyyy format for all dates** ##ConfidentialityThe information in this RFI is issued in strict confidence and you may not disclose or publish the information in this RFI to any other person firm or corporation. You should also disclose the Information in this RFI only to those of your employees and/or agents and/or affiliated companies to whom it is essential to disclose the same for the purpose of responding to this RFI (and to require all such persons to sign to observe the confidentiality of this document).
##IntroductionState the purpose of the RFI. For example: *“[YOUR COMPANY NAME] requests information regarding your company and your products/services. Identical information will be gathered from different companies and will be used to evaluate the potential suppliers with whom we intend to subsequently transact. We will follow up the RFI process with a Request for Pricing within [TIME PERIOD] days of the final date by which all responses must be received. If you have not heard from us within 7 days from that date you may assume that your company has not been selected to proceed further in the process. We thank you for your time and diligence in responding to this RFI.”*
##Scope of the request[Give a generic description of why you are issuing this RFI but call out any must haves. For example: *“[YOUR COMPANY NAME] is seeking to implement a Warehouse Management System with full support for [RFID/Whatever you have to have…”]*
##How to respondSend the attached Excel spreadsheet/Questionnaire (in the format supplied) by email to [your email address].Specify what questions responders can ask and how they should raise them. For example: *“Queries must relate only to responses on the RFI form and should be directed to [your email address]. You may expect a reply within one working day. Please note that responses to queries may be circulated to all other recipients of this RFI.”*
##Timeframe[Date] RFI Issued to all prospective suppliers.[Date] Responses received. After this date no questions will be answered.[Date] RFP issued to selected suppliers based on RFI submissions.[Date] Presentations by shortlisted suppliers.[Date] Successful supplier notified.  ##Company BackgroundGive details of your company. The type of information usually provided is:

- Date of incorporation- Number of staff- Geographical spread- Location of HQ- Location where the project will take place- Core product(s)- Annual turnover- Link to your website
##Supplier Pre-requisitesList the pre-requisites of a supplier to your business. These are typically corporate governance criteria such as: *“supplier must operate an equal opportunities programme, or supplier must have $n million of Professional Indemnity Insurance etc.”*You may also require suppliers to comply with specific standards e.g. ISO standards or to use specific methodologies in the area of Quality or Risk Management.Solution Pre-requisitesList any pre-requisites of the solution or service you require. For example: *“solution must support internationalization and non-western character sets as it will be rolled out to multiple countries in local language/ supplier must provide French and Spanish speakers for the rollout in Europe as these are the languages of our businesses in those countries.”* ###Form to fill in as answer to the RFI|Question	                |Answer            |
|:------------------------|:-----------------|
|Company name	             |                  
|Company address (HQ)     |        |Website URL	|Date of incorporation	|List of products and services|In which markets do you operate?|Number of employees (worldwide)	|Turnover (prior year)	|Stock Market EPIC	
|	|Contact Name and Title	|Contact Email	|Contact Telephone	|Contact Address (if different from Company HQ)|Name and description of any products or services you provide that you feel fulfill the requirements as currently stated
|Number of customers using any product(s) and services that match the RFI requirements *(Please provide a breakdown by country)*|Location of any support centre(s) you operate. Specify (by location) if this is 24 x 7.	|What is your standard SLA response time to incidents?|
|Please specify any standard project methodology you would utilize in an implementation for us.	|What roles would be dedicated on the project, for example a dedicate PM/Scrum Master, Account Manager etc?
|What directly relevant services do you provide e.g. training?	*[Extend/amend the list above as your needs dictate]*